---
keywords: fastai
description: for week 2
title: 1.1 - 1.2 hacks and notes
toc: true 
badges: true
comments: true
categories: [3.1]
nb_path: _notebooks/2022-11-30-11stuff.ipynb
layout: notebook
---

<!--
#################################################
### THIS FILE WAS AUTOGENERATED! DO NOT EDIT! ###
#################################################
# file to edit: _notebooks/2022-11-30-11stuff.ipynb
-->

<div class="container" id="notebook-container">
        
<div class="cell border-box-sizing text_cell rendered"><div class="inner_cell">
<div class="text_cell_render border-box-sizing rendered_html">
<h1 id="Notes">Notes<a class="anchor-link" href="#Notes"> </a></h1><h3 id="variables-and-lists">variables and lists<a class="anchor-link" href="#variables-and-lists"> </a></h3><p>these are an abstraction inside a program that hold a value. each variable has associated data storage that represents one value at a time, but that value can be a list or other collection that in turn contains multiple values.</p>
<p>use good names when naming variables to make the code easy to read</p>
<p>lists allow variables to be bundled together.</p>
<p>you can add or remove variables from one list to another with .append</p>
<h3 id="assignment-operator">assignment operator<a class="anchor-link" href="#assignment-operator"> </a></h3><p>this changes a variable to a certain value. on tests, "⟵" will be used for assignment.
storing values is assigning them to variables</p>
<h3 id="Key-Vocab">Key Vocab<a class="anchor-link" href="#Key-Vocab"> </a></h3><p>list: a sequence of several variables grouped together</p>
<p>variable: a way of storing information in a computer program, which could later be changed, referenced, and used</p>
<p>data types: a set of values and operations on those values</p>
<p>abstract data types: a data type whose internal representation is hidden from the client</p>
<p>client: a program that uses a data type</p>
<p>objects: a structure that can take on a data-type value</p>
<p>Applications programming interface (API): which is a list of constructors and instance methods or operations, used to specify the behavior of an abstract data type</p>
<h2 id="Hacks-1.1-1.2">Hacks 1.1-1.2<a class="anchor-link" href="#Hacks-1.1-1.2"> </a></h2><p>3 practice questions</p>
<p>q: which variable would you use for value of a stock?</p>
<p>A: stock1 string</p>
<p>B: stock string</p>
<p>C: is_stock boolean</p>
<p>D: stock1val integer</p>
<p>Ans: D</p>
<p>q which variable would you use for a class names?</p>
<p>1: John string</p>
<p>2: isJohn boolean</p>
<p>3: john integer</p>
<p>Ans: 1</p>
<p>q what variable name would you use to store whether tv is on or off?</p>
<p>A: ison</p>
<p>B: on</p>
<p>C: off</p>
<p>D: yes</p>
<p>Ans: A, also store as boolean</p>
<h2 id="example-practice-problems">example practice problems<a class="anchor-link" href="#example-practice-problems"> </a></h2><p>Consider the following code segment:</p>
<p>num1 ⟵ 6</p>
<p>num2 ⟵ 4</p>
<p>num3 ⟵ 10</p>
<p>IF num1 &lt; num2</p>
<p>num1 ⟵ num2</p>
<p>ELSE</p>
<p>num3 ⟵ num2</p>
<p>IF num2 ≥ num3</p>
<p>num1 ⟵ num2 + num3</p>
<p>sum ⟵ num1 + num2 + num3</p>
<p>What is the value of sum after the code segment is executed?</p>
<p>18</p>
<p>14</p>
<p>16</p>
<p>12</p>
<p>ANS: 16</p>
<p>Consider the following code segment</p>
<p>num1 ⟵ 5</p>
<p>num2 ⟵ 10</p>
<p>num3 ⟵ 20</p>
<p>num3 ⟵ num1</p>
<p>num3 ⟵ num2</p>
<p>num1 ⟵ num3</p>
<p>sum ⟵ num1 + num2 + num3</p>
<p>what is sum?</p>
<p>35</p>
<p>30</p>
<p>45</p>
<p>25</p>
<p>ANS: 45</p>
<h1 id="hacks">hacks<a class="anchor-link" href="#hacks"> </a></h1><p>Consider the following code segment:</p>
<p>num1 ⟵ 4</p>
<p>num2 ⟵ 6</p>
<p>num1 ⟵ num 2</p>
<p>DISPLAY(num1)</p>
<p>DISPLAY(num2)</p>
<p>What is displayed after running this code segment?</p>
<p>4 6</p>
<p>6 4</p>
<p>4 4</p>
<p>6 6</p>
<p>ANS: 6 6</p>
<p>I got this one wrong because I initially thought that num1 would retain its value. I realize now that num1 was changed to num2, and that I just kind of read over that statement.</p>
<p>What is the difference between an integer and string of numbers?</p>
<p>An integer is just a set data type while a string of numbers can be changed with addition and subtraction</p>
<p>An integer can be letters and numbers while a string is just numbers</p>
<p>An integer is just numbers while a string is just words</p>
<p>An integer can be changed with addition and subtraction and a string is a set number or string of letters.</p>
<p>ANS: 4th statement
I got this problem wrong because my knowledge of that vocab was weak. I initially thought it was 3rd statement, but now I know the specific definition of an integer
and Strings.</p>
<p>INT are numbers that can undergo math statements</p>
<p>Strings are words that can't have their problems changed by math (addition subtraction)</p>
<p>Extra Binary Hacks if you changed your bits to 24</p>
<p>Convert the following decimal notation to binary notation:</p>
<p>57345</p>
<p>ANS: 1110000000000001</p>
<p>I got this one wrong because i messed up somewhere in my math</p>
<p>16777215</p>
<p>ANS: 111111111111111111111111</p>
<p>I got this one wrong for same reason as the previous problem</p>
<p>Convert the binary notation to decimal notation:</p>
<p>1101001000101000</p>
<p>53800</p>
<p>I also got this one wrong because of math errors. I should double check my problems on the test to ensure that I get them right.</p>
<p>I did all of the problems on the blog. I found that converting to decimal was a lot harder than conversions from binary to decimal.</p>
<p>after doing the other problems I found that most topics are easy to understand but binary and assigning variables different values is kind of difficult. the binary is difficult because I sometimes just make math errors, and the other just requires some harder thinking to avoid making some simple error.</p>

</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
 

