---
toc: true
layout: post
description: N@TM
categories: [Reflection]
title: Night at the Museum reflection (the one for 2nd tri)
---

# our presentation to teacher and others

I think that our presentation to the teacher was good, although there wasn't much we could mess up. 

We had:

4 different features with incoropration with an sqlite database,

fetching from our main deployment for a couple of our features and printing it out onto the frontend (GH pages)

using post method to allow users to post to the database,

and API for the frontend to fetch from for our features. 

Our presentation went smoothly and we made sure to highlight our full stack and our ability to fetch and post from the database. If we did the presentation to teacher again, there isn't much different we could change except for maybe also showing the Sqlite database being viewable on vscode and it changing with the post methods on the website.


# other projects

One project I viewed was a Flight Planner Project. This project did not have a functioning database nor did it have fetch or even API's to fetch from. Although their project was broken and didn't really have full stack, i felt like their frontend was well designed and they definetly put effort into designing their frontend. Maybe if they focused more on getting full stack up before design and frontend,, things would have been better for them.


I saw another project that had a strong focus on users and storing user data. This was interesting for me because our project barely put any emphasis on users, but focused more on creative features. For their project, they stored users in a database and could store user scores from the games on their page on a leaderboard. This was interesting for me because all our team was focused on was getting this database up and fetching, but they also apparently could also use that data for a leaderboard and basically interact with the data or at least sort it. Adding a more in depth user system for us could have definently been a worthwhile endeavor for our project.


# final reflection

I feel like our project met the mark, however didn't go above and beyond and explore other extra features. Things like a user system were planned from the start, but were never developed due to difficulties and lack of time to develop. On the other hand, meeting the mark was still quite difficult, as developing the database and getting fetch and post to work took a lot of effort, and judging from other's struggle to get their project into functionality, I think that meeting the mark for this project was difficult but more than enough for me and our team. Maybe next time we will have a more well developed project to show at N@TM.

