---
toc: true
layout: post
description: helping me have better mental health
categories: [notes]
title: notes for focus and habits hacks
---

## using positive psychology to improve life


give time for healthy habits
-mindful moment
-meditation

insights


1: "this enterprise is possible" you can control your
happiness. You control how happy you are.


although genes control 50% happiness other 50% s happiness you control


it is your own behaviors that make you happy

2: you can become happy, but it takes work


if you build good, healthy habits into your routine, you will become happy. need to do it every day.


3: recognize that your mind is not always telling you what makes you happy


ex: people think that salary makes one happy but in truth wealthy people are not all very happy.


minds lie to you about what you can do to be happier.


4: establish social connections. being with others makes 


ex: spending money on others makes you happy and the receivers happy.


5: make time for gratitude every day.


when you talk to others, talk about gratitude


express gratitude to those who have helped you


focus on blessings, not hassle


6: exercise is extremely good for your mental health.


7: get enough sleep


8: take time to be in the present moment. 


9: become wealthy in terms of time. 


value your time more than becoming more rich. use your time to 
become healthy

### gratitude list

1: My family, who have always been there for me


2: my country. I am grateful for the freedom I have here


3: I am grateful to be in a nice neighborhood and have friendly neighbors to see every day


4: My friends, who support me and help me through hard times


### future goals


1: improve at programming so that I can contribute to open source projects I like


2: Study hard and become successful like my parents


3: do simple exercise daily to keep my body in shape