---
toc: true
layout: post
description: CPT pt 1
categories: [CollegeBoard]
title: CPT written portion draft 1
---

# CPT written portion draft 1

## 3.b.
    
    3.a.i:
    the program I made is coded primarily in javascript, with html elements used to display certain elements. The purpose of the program is to entertain and test the user by providing them with a math question that tests their ability to solve basic math problems and keeps their mind sharp.

    3.a.ii.
    the video shows the user using the "create math question", then inputting answers in until the user gets the right one.

    3.a.iii:
    the input shown is the submitted answer the user puts in the text box, and the output is either an alert saying you got it right or a different alert forcing the user to answer until he got the question right.

## 3.b:
    
    3.b.iii:
    "quest" is the name of the list
    
    3.b.iiii:
    this data is important because it contains all of the questions that the user could generate
    
    3.b.iiiii:
    without the use of a list for storing the questions, I would have to store all of the questions in individual variables, then edit my function so that it grabs a random variable defined as a question, instead of easily just grabbing a random question from a list instead.


## 3.c:
    
    3.c.iii:
    the function test(ans) is used for the program to check if the user's answer is correct or not. This function first uses parseint to see if the user's answer is a number or not, then checks if the user's answer is the same as the actual answer to the question, in which case the program tells the user that they are right, and changes an element in an html table to show the correct answer.
    
    3.c.iiii:
    I utilize a while loop to 

